
# Data Science for Good: DonorsChoose.org
Help DonorsChoose.org connect donors with projects they care about
DonorsChoose.org has funded over 1.1 million classroom requests through the support of 3 million donors, the majority of whom were making their first-ever donation to a public school. If DonorsChoose.org can motivate even a fraction of those donors to make another donation, that could have a huge impact on the number of classroom requests fulfilled.
A good solution will enable DonorsChoose.org to build targeted email campaigns recommending specific classroom requests to prior donors. Part of the challenge is to assess the needs of the organization, uncover insights from the data available, and build the right solution for this problem. Submissions will be evaluated on the following criteria:
Performance - How well does the solution match donors to project requests to which they would be motivated to donate? DonorsChoose.org will not be able to live test every submission, so a strong entry will clearly articulate why it will be effective at motivating repeat donations. Adaptable - The DonorsChoose.org team wants to put the winning submissions to work, quickly. Therefore a good entry will be easy to implement in production. Intelligible - A good entry should be easily understood by the DonorsChoose.org team should it need to be updated in the future to accommodate a changing marketplace.
# My Approach
Content Based Filtering Like the name suggests, the Content-based Filtering approach involves analyzing an item a user interacted with, and giving recommendations that are similar in content to that item. Content, in this case, refers to a set of attributes/features that describes your item. For a Project recommendation engine, a content-based approach would be to recommend Projects that are of highest similarity based on its features, such as Title of project,Type of Project, Subjects, etc.
The assumption here is that users have preferences for a certain type of product, so we try to recommend a similar product to what the user has expressed liking for. Also, the goal here is to provide alternatives or substitutes to the item that was viewed.
To build a simple content-based recommender engine, a user profile is necessary to determine what a user is inclined to prefer, and can be constructed based on the user’s preferences or viewing behavior.
